# Time-Series-of-Global-Land-and-Sea-Temperature-Anomalies

Enjoy a project I completed back in 4th year for my regression and time series course. In this report I discuss how forecasting time series can predict the temperatue of the Earth in the coming years. This project was completed in R.
Below I will post the abstract of this paper.

Climate change has become a major concern in the past few years.  Since the mid 1800’s after the industrial revolution there has been worry that the enormous amount of carbon emissions produced by humans has the potential of creating change.  There is prospective evidence that this may detrimental to the Earth if these types of emissions continue over the centuries to come.  As we know carbon emissions have only increased as industries have flourished and evolved over the years.  If it is true that carbon emissions are warming the Earth’s environment this cannot be a good thing.  Initiatives have been introduced over recent years to create sustainable energy sources, but these have not been accepted by society as a whole.  Proving that that the climate continues to warm, will be shown in the numerous different depictions below.  A time series is constructed in this project taking the temperature anomalies away from an averaged value each biannually each year from 1880-2017, present year.  From the time series depiction a forecast of future possible values will be predicted based on past temperature anomalies.  Using various statistical techniques associated with time series models, it was found that the actual temperature will continue to raise higher by about 2 ° C over the next 2 centuries to come, this was determined from forecasting based on the previous values in the data set.
